WasmThemis + React (#256)
cossacklabs/product-docs: content/themis/languages/wasm/reactjs.md

---
weight: 5
title:  WASM & ReactJS
---

# Installing WasmThemis in ReactJS application
## How to use Themis in React applications

This article is addressed application developers on React who want to use Themis to make cryptographic features in their products.

> The key problem is configuring Webpack to use Themis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The key step is configuring Webpack to use Themis.
```

### Why this is the problem?

There are two cases.

> The first case is very dumb. Developers need to copy libthemis.wasm file separately. This is stated in the (examples/) [product documentation](installation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first case is very straightforward. Developers need to copy `libthemis.wasm` file separately, see [WasmThemis installation](/themis/languages/wasm/installation/#deploying-apps-with-wasmthemis).
```

> "However, in addition to JavaScript code, WasmThemis also includes the compiled WebAssembly bytecode. The bytecode is located in node_modules/wasm-themis/src/libthemis.wasm file, which will be loaded by the browser separately. Make sure that libthemis.wasm is placed next to the produced JavaScript bundle by copying it from node_modules directory when building your application."

Reviewer: not sure it's worth copy-pasting

```suggestion
```

> The second case is configuring Webpack. Webpack is the most useful tool for modern JavaScript applications, not only for React applications. This is a static module bundler.  WasmThemis code is generated by Emscripten to be universal. It includes some references to Node.js modules for Node.js support, but they are not accessible in web browsers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second case is configuring [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/). Webpack is the most useful tool for modern JavaScript applications, not only for React applications. 

WasmThemis code is generated by Emscripten to be universal. It includes some references to Node.js modules for Node.js support, but they are not accessible in web browsers.
```

The easiest way to create a new application is to use the command

```bash
npx create-react-app my-app
```
or
```bash
yarn create react-app my-app --template typescript
```
Let us check that’s all correct.

```bash
cd my-app
yarn start
```

Add react-app-rewired package to tweak create-react-app webpack config without eject.
```bash
yarn add react-app-rewired --dev
```

All the benefits of create-react-app without the limitations of "no config". You can add plugins and loaders whatever you need.

Install the webpack copy plugin that will copy libthemis.wasm to the output directory.
```bash
yarn add copy-webpack-plugin --dev
```
Be sure to add --dev option because you need to add the previous two packages to development dependencies.

## Install the Themis.

```bash
yarn add wasm-themis
yarn add buffer
```

Buffer will be used for conversion between uint8array and base64 encoded strings.

To use react-app-rewired feature need to update package.json. Replace start, build and test values in section “scripts” with the next values:

```json
"scripts": {
   "start": "react-app-rewired start",
   "build": "react-app-rewired build",
   "test" : "react-app-rewired test",

> ```

Reviewer: add new line after this line?
